Arthur, the greatest of Britain's kings, holds the Christmas
festival at Camelot, surrounded by the celebrated knights of the
Round Table, noble lords, the most renowned under heaven, and
ladies the loveliest that ever had life. This noble company
celebrate the New Year by a religious service, by the bestowal
of gifts, and the most joyous mirth. Lords and ladies take their
seats at the table--Queen Guenever, the grey-eyed, gaily
dressed, sits at the daïs, the high table, or table of state,
where too sat Gawayne and Ywain together with other worthies of
the Round Table. Arthur, in mood as joyful as a child, his blood
young and his brain wild, declares that he will not eat nor sit
long at the table until some adventurous thing, some uncouth
tale, some great marvel, or some encounter of arms has
occurred to mark the return of the New Year.
The first course was announced with cracking of trumpets, with
the noise of nakers and noble pipes.
"Each two had dishes twelve, Good beer and bright wine both."
Scarcely was the first course served when another noise than
that of music was heard. There rushes in at the hall-door a
knight of gigantic stature--the greatest on earth--in measure
high. He was clothed entirely in green, and rode upon a green foal. 
Fair wavy hair fell about the shoulders of the Green Knight,
and a great beard like a bush hung upon his breast.
The knight carried no helmet, shield, or spear, but in one hand
a holly bough, and in the other an axe "huge and unmeet," the
edge of which was as keen as a sharp razor. Thus arrayed, the
Green Knight enters the hall without saluting any one. The first
word that he uttered was, "Where is the govenour of this gang?
gladly would I see him and with himself speak reason." To the
knights he cast his eye, looking for the most renowned. Much did
the noble assembly marvel to see a man and a horse of such a
hue, green as the grass. Even greener they seemed than green
enamel on bright gold. Many marvels had they seen, but none such
as this. They were afraid to answer, but sat stone-still in a
dead silence, as if overpowered by sleep;
"Not all from fear, but some for courtesy".
Then Arthur before the high daïs salutes the Green Knight, bids
him welcome, and entreats him to stay awhile at his Court. 
The knight says that his errand is not to abide in any dwelling, 
but to seek the most
valiant of the heroes of the Round Table that he may put his courage to
the proof, and thus satisfy himself as to the fame of Arthur's court.
"I come," he says, "in peace, as ye may see by this branch that I bear
here. Had I come with hostile intentions, I should not have left my
hauberk, helmet, shield, sharp spear, and other weapons behind me. But
because I desire no war, 'my weeds are softer.' If thou be so bold as
all men say, thou wilt grant me the request I am about to make." "Sir courteous knight," replies Arthur, 
"if thou cravest battle only, here
failest thou not to fight." "Nay," says the Green Knight, "I seek no
fighting. Here about on this bench are only beardless children. Were I arrayed in arms on a high steed no man here would be a
match for me. But it is now Christmas time, and this is the New Year, and I see around me many brave ones;--if any be so bold in his blood
that dare strike a stroke for another, I shall give him this rich axe
to do with it whatever he pleases. I shall abide the first blow just as
I sit, and will stand him a stroke, stiff on this floor, provided that
I deal him another in return.

      